Hundreds of years since, where this villa now stands was the simple
dwelling of the two women whose history we have begun to tell you.
There you might have seen a small stone cottage with a two-arched
arcade in front, gleaming brilliantly white out of the dusky foliage
of an orange-orchard. The dwelling was wedged like a bird-box between
two fragments of rock, and behind it the land rose rocky, high, and
steep, so as to form a natural wall. A small ledge or terrace of
cultivated land here hung in air,--below it, a precipice of two hundred
feet down into the Gorge of Sorrento. A couple of dozen orange-trees,
straight and tall, with healthy, shining bark, here shot up from the
fine black volcanic soil, and made with their foliage a twilight shadow
on the ground, so deep that no vegetation, save a fine velvet moss,
could dispute their claim to its entire nutritious offices. These
trees were the sole wealth of the women and the sole ornament of the
garden; but, as they stood there, not only laden with golden fruit,
but fragrant with pearly blossoms, they made the little rocky platform
seem a perfect Garden of the Hesperides. The stone cottage, as we have
said, had an open, whitewashed arcade in front, from which one could
look down into the gloomy depths of the gorge, as into some mysterious
underworld. Strange and weird it seemed, with its fathomless shadows
and its wild grottoes, over which hung, silently waving, long pendants
of ivy, while dusky gray aloes uplifted their horned heads from great
rock-rifts, like elfin spirits struggling upward out of the shade. Nor
was wanting the usual gentle poetry of flowers; for white iris leaned
its fairy pavilion over the black void like a pale-cheeked princess
from the window of some dark enchanted castle, and scarlet geranium and
golden broom and crimson gladiolus waved and glowed in the shifting
beams of the sunlight. Also there was in this little spot what forms
the charm of Italian gardens always,--the sweet song and prattle of
waters. A clear mountain-spring burst through the rock on one side
of the little cottage, and fell with a lulling noise into a quaint
moss-grown water-trough, which had been in former times the sarcophagus
of some old Roman sepulchre. Its sides were richly sculptured with
figures and leafy scrolls and arabesques, into which the sly-footed
lichens with quiet growth had so insinuated themselves as in some
places almost to obliterate the original design; while, round the
place where the water fell, a veil of ferns and maiden's-hair, studded
with tremulous silver drops, vibrated to its soothing murmur. The
superfluous waters, drained off by a little channel on one side, were
conducted through the rocky parapet of the garden, whence they trickled
and tinkled from rock to rock, falling with a continual drip among the
swaying ferns and pendent ivy wreaths, till they reached the little
stream at the bottom of the gorge. This parapet or garden-wall was
formed of blocks or fragments of what had once been white marble, the
probable remains of the ancient tomb from which the sarcophagus was
taken. Here and there a marble acanthus-leaf, or the capital of an old
column, or a fragment of sculpture jutted from under the mosses, ferns,
and grasses with which prodigal Nature had filled every interstice and
carpeted the whole. These sculptured fragments everywhere in Italy seem
to whisper, from the dust, of past life and death, of a cycle of human
existence forever gone, over whose tomb the life of to-day is built.
